README.md, before:

Shopify App      [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Shopify/shopify_app.png)](https://travis-ci.org/Shopify/shopify_app)
===========

Shopify Application Rails engine and generator


Description
-----------
This gem includes a Rails Engine and generators for writing Rails applications using the Shopify API. The Engine provides a SessionsController and all the required code for authenticating with a shop via Oauth (other authentication methods are not supported).

The [example](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify_app/tree/master/example) directory contains an app that was generated with this gem. It also contains sample code demonstrating the usage of the embedded app sdk.

*Note: It's recommended to use this on a new Rails project, so that the generator won't overwrite/delete some of your files.*


Quickstart
----------

Check out this screencast on how to create and deploy a new Shopify App to Heroku in 5 minutes:

[https://vimeo.com/130247240](https://vimeo.com/130247240)

Or if you prefer text instructions the steps in the video are written out [here](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify_app/blob/master/QUICKSTART.md)

Becoming a Shopify App Developer
--------------------------------
If you don't have a Shopify Partner account yet head over to http://shopify.com/partners to create one, you'll need it before you can start developing apps.

Once you have a Partner account create a new application to get an Api key and other Api credentials. To create a development application set the Application Callback URL to

```
http://localhost:3000/
```

and the `redirect_uri` to

```
http://localhost:3000/auth/shopify/callback
```

This way you'll be able to run the app on your local machine.

Also note, ShopifyApp creates embedded apps by default, so remember to check `enabled` for the embedded settings.


Installation
------------
To get started add shopify_app to your Gemfile and bundle install

``` sh
# Create a new rails app
$ rails new my_shopify_app
$ cd my_shopify_app

# Add the gem shopify_app to your Gemfile
$ echo "gem 'shopify_app'" >> Gemfile
$ bundle install
```

Now we are ready to run any of the shopify_app generators. The following section explains the generators and what they can do.


Generators
----------

### Default Generator

The default generator will run the `install`, `shop`, and `home_controller` generators. This is the recommended way to start your app.

```sh
$ rails generate shopify_app --api_key <your_api_key> --secret <your_app_secret>
```


### Install Generator

```sh
$ rails generate shopify_app:install

# or optionally with arguments:

$ rails generate shopify_app:install --api_key <your_api_key> --secret <your_app_secret>
```

Other options include:
* `scope` - the Oauth access scope required for your app, eg 'read_products, write_orders'. For more information read the [docs](http://docs.shopify.com/api/tutorials/oauth)
* `embedded` - the default is to generate an [embedded app](http://docs.shopify.com/embedded-app-sdk), if you want a legacy non-embedded app then set this to false, `--embedded false`

You can update any of these settings later on easily, the arguments are simply for convenience.

The generator adds ShopifyApp and the required initializers to the host Rails application.

After running the `install` generator, you can start your app with `bundle exec rails server` and install your app by visiting localhost.


### Shop Model Generator

```sh
$ rails generate shopify_app:shop_model
```

The install generator doesn't create any database models for you and if you are starting a new app its quite likely that you will want one (most of our internally developed apps do!). This generator creates a simple shop model and a migration. It also creates a model called `SessionStorage` which interacts with `ShopifyApp::SessionRepository`. Check out the later section to learn more about `ShopifyApp::SessionRepository`

*Note that you will need to run rake db:migrate after this generator*


### Home Controller Generator

```sh
$ rails generate shopify_app:home_controller
```

This generator creates an example home controller and view which fetches and displays products using the ShopifyAPI


### Controllers, Routes and Views

The last group of generators are for your convenience if you want to start overriding code included as part of the Rails engine. For example by default the engine provides a simple SessionController, if you run the `rails generate shopify_app:controllers` generator then this code gets copied out into your app so you can start adding to it. Routes and views follow the exact same pattern.


Managing Api Keys
-----------------

The `install` generator places your Api credentials directly into the shopify_app initializer which is convenient and fine for development but once your app goes into production **your api credentials should not be in source control**. When we develop apps we keep our keys in environment variables so a production shopify_app initializer would look like this:

```ruby
ShopifyApp.configure do |config|
  config.api_key = ENV['SHOPIFY_CLIENT_API_KEY']
  config.secret = ENV['SHOPIFY_CLIENT_API_SECRET']
  config.scope = 'read_customers, read_orders, write_products'
  config.embedded_app = true
end
```


WebhooksManager
---------------

ShopifyApp can manage your app's webhooks for you by setting which webhooks you require in the initializer:

```ruby
ShopifyApp.configure do |config|
  config.webhooks = [
    {topic: 'carts/update', address: 'example-app.com/webhooks/carts_update'}
  ]
end
```

When the oauth callback is completed successfully ShopifyApp will queue a background job which will ensure all the specified webhooks exist for that shop. Because this runs on every oauth callback it means your app will always have the webhooks it needs even if the user uninstalls and re-installs the app.

ShopifyApp also provides a WebhooksController that receives webhooks and queues a job based on the webhook url. For example if you register the webhook from above then all you need to do is create a job called `CartsUpdateJob`. The job will be queued with 2 params `shop_domain` and `webhook` which is the webhook body.

If you'd rather implement your own controller then you'll want to use the WebhookVerfication module to verify your webhooks:

```ruby
class CustomWebhooksController < ApplicationController
  include ShopifyApp::WebhookVerification

  def carts_update
    SomeJob.perform_later(shopify_domain: shop_domain, webhook: params)
    head :ok
  end
end
```

The module skips the `verify_authenticity_token` before_action and adds an action to verify that the webhook came from Shopify.

The WebhooksManager uses ActiveJob, if ActiveJob is not configured then by default Rails will run the jobs inline. However it is highly recommended to configure a proper background processing queue like sidekiq or resque in production.

ShopifyApp can create webhooks for you using the `add_webhook` generator. This will add the new webhook to your config and create the required job class for you.

```
rails g shopify_app:add_webhook -t carts/update -a https://example.com/webhooks/carts_update
```

where `-t` is the topic and `-a` is the address the webhook should be sent to.

ScripttagsManager
-----------------

As with webhooks, ShopifyApp can manage your app's scripttags for you by setting which scripttags you require in the initializer:

```ruby
ShopifyApp.configure do |config|
  config.scripttags = [
    {event:'onload', src: 'https://my-shopifyapp.herokuapp.com/fancy.js'}
  ]
end
```

Scripttags are created in the same way as the Webhooks, with a background job which will create the required scripttags.

ShopifyApp::SessionRepository
-----------------------------

`ShopifyApp::SessionRepository` allows you as a developer to define how your sessions are retrieved and stored for a shop. The `SessionRepository` is configured using the `config/initializers/shopify_session_repository.rb` file and can be set to any object that implements `self.store(shopify_session)` which stores the session and returns a unique identifier and `self.retrieve(id)` which returns a `ShopifyAPI::Session` for the passed id. See either the `InMemorySessionStore` or the `SessionStorage` module for examples.

If you only run the install generator then by default you will have an in memory store but it **won't work** on multi-server environments including Heroku. If you ran all the generators including the shop_model generator then the Shop model itself will be the `SessionRepository`. If you look at the implementation of the generated shop model you'll see that this gem provides an activerecord mixin for the `SessionRepository`. You can use this mixin on any model that responds to `shopify_domain` and `shopify_token`.

AuthenticatedController
-----------------------

The engine includes a controller called `ShopifyApp::AuthenticatedController` which inherits from `ApplicationController`. It adds some before_filters which ensure the user is authenticated and will redirect to the login page if not. It is best practice to have all controllers that belong to the Shopify part of your app inherit from this controller. The HomeController that is generated already inherits from AuthenticatedController.

AppProxyVerification
--------------------

The engine provides a mixin for verifying incoming HTTP requests sent via an App Proxy. Any controller that `include`s `ShopifyApp::AppProxyVerification` will verify that each request has a valid `signature` query parameter that is calculated using the other query parameters and the app's shared secret.

### Recommended Usage

1. Use the `namespace` method to create app proxy routes
    ```ruby
    # config/routes.rb
    namespace :app_proxy do
      # simple routes without a specified controller will go to AppProxyController
      get :basic

      # more complex routes will go to controllers in the AppProxy namespace
      resources :reviews
      # GET /app_proxy/reviews will now be routed to
      # AppProxy::ReviewsController#index, for example
    end
    ```

2. `include` the mixin in your app proxy controllers
    ```ruby
    # app/controllers/app_proxy_controller.rb
    class AppProxyController < ApplicationController
      include ShopifyApp::AppProxyVerification

      def basic
        render text: 'Signature verification passed!'
      end
    end

    # app/controllers/app_proxy/reviews_controller.rb
    class ReviewsController < ApplicationController
      include ShopifyApp::AppProxyVerification
      # ...
    end
    ```

3. Create your app proxy url in the [Shopify Partners' Dashboard](https://app.shopify.com/services/partners/api_clients), making sure to point it to `https://your_app_website.com/app_proxy`.
![Creating an App Proxy](/images/app-proxy-screenshot.png)

Troubleshooting
---------------

### Generator shopify_app:install hangs

Rails uses spring by default to speed up development. To run the generator, spring has to be stopped:

```sh
$ bundle exec spring stop
```

Run shopify_app generator again.

Testing an embedded app outside the Shopify admin
-------------------------------------------------

By default, loading your embedded app will redirect to the Shopify admin, with the app view loaded in an `iframe`. If you need to load your app outside of the Shopify admin (e.g., for performance testing), you can change `forceRedirect: false` to `true` in `ShopifyApp.init` block in the `embedded_app` view. To keep the redirect on in production but off in your `development` and `test` environments, you can use:

```javascript
forceRedirect: <%= Rails.env.development? || Rails.env.test? ? 'false' : 'true' %>
```

Questions or problems?
----------------------
http://api.shopify.com <= Read up on the possible API calls!

http://ecommerce.shopify.com/c/shopify-apis-and-technology <= Ask questions!

http://docs.shopify.com/api/the-basics/getting-started <= Read the docs!

Commit message:

Add note to README about scripttags and Rails javascript asset

README.md, after:

Shopify App      [![Build Status](https://travis-ci.org/Shopify/shopify_app.png)](https://travis-ci.org/Shopify/shopify_app)
===========

Shopify Application Rails engine and generator


Description
-----------
This gem includes a Rails Engine and generators for writing Rails applications using the Shopify API. The Engine provides a SessionsController and all the required code for authenticating with a shop via Oauth (other authentication methods are not supported).

The [example](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify_app/tree/master/example) directory contains an app that was generated with this gem. It also contains sample code demonstrating the usage of the embedded app sdk.

*Note: It's recommended to use this on a new Rails project, so that the generator won't overwrite/delete some of your files.*


Quickstart
----------

Check out this screencast on how to create and deploy a new Shopify App to Heroku in 5 minutes:

[https://vimeo.com/130247240](https://vimeo.com/130247240)

Or if you prefer text instructions the steps in the video are written out [here](https://github.com/Shopify/shopify_app/blob/master/QUICKSTART.md)

Becoming a Shopify App Developer
--------------------------------
If you don't have a Shopify Partner account yet head over to http://shopify.com/partners to create one, you'll need it before you can start developing apps.

Once you have a Partner account create a new application to get an Api key and other Api credentials. To create a development application set the Application Callback URL to

```
http://localhost:3000/
```

and the `redirect_uri` to

```
http://localhost:3000/auth/shopify/callback
```

This way you'll be able to run the app on your local machine.

Also note, ShopifyApp creates embedded apps by default, so remember to check `enabled` for the embedded settings.


Installation
------------
To get started add shopify_app to your Gemfile and bundle install

``` sh
# Create a new rails app
$ rails new my_shopify_app
$ cd my_shopify_app

# Add the gem shopify_app to your Gemfile
$ echo "gem 'shopify_app'" >> Gemfile
$ bundle install
```

Now we are ready to run any of the shopify_app generators. The following section explains the generators and what they can do.


Generators
----------

### Default Generator

The default generator will run the `install`, `shop`, and `home_controller` generators. This is the recommended way to start your app.

```sh
$ rails generate shopify_app --api_key <your_api_key> --secret <your_app_secret>
```


### Install Generator

```sh
$ rails generate shopify_app:install

# or optionally with arguments:

$ rails generate shopify_app:install --api_key <your_api_key> --secret <your_app_secret>
```

Other options include:
* `scope` - the Oauth access scope required for your app, eg 'read_products, write_orders'. For more information read the [docs](http://docs.shopify.com/api/tutorials/oauth)
* `embedded` - the default is to generate an [embedded app](http://docs.shopify.com/embedded-app-sdk), if you want a legacy non-embedded app then set this to false, `--embedded false`

You can update any of these settings later on easily, the arguments are simply for convenience.

The generator adds ShopifyApp and the required initializers to the host Rails application.

After running the `install` generator, you can start your app with `bundle exec rails server` and install your app by visiting localhost.


### Shop Model Generator

```sh
$ rails generate shopify_app:shop_model
```

The install generator doesn't create any database models for you and if you are starting a new app its quite likely that you will want one (most of our internally developed apps do!). This generator creates a simple shop model and a migration. It also creates a model called `SessionStorage` which interacts with `ShopifyApp::SessionRepository`. Check out the later section to learn more about `ShopifyApp::SessionRepository`

*Note that you will need to run rake db:migrate after this generator*


### Home Controller Generator

```sh
$ rails generate shopify_app:home_controller
```

This generator creates an example home controller and view which fetches and displays products using the ShopifyAPI


### Controllers, Routes and Views

The last group of generators are for your convenience if you want to start overriding code included as part of the Rails engine. For example by default the engine provides a simple SessionController, if you run the `rails generate shopify_app:controllers` generator then this code gets copied out into your app so you can start adding to it. Routes and views follow the exact same pattern.


Managing Api Keys
-----------------

The `install` generator places your Api credentials directly into the shopify_app initializer which is convenient and fine for development but once your app goes into production **your api credentials should not be in source control**. When we develop apps we keep our keys in environment variables so a production shopify_app initializer would look like this:

```ruby
ShopifyApp.configure do |config|
  config.api_key = ENV['SHOPIFY_CLIENT_API_KEY']
  config.secret = ENV['SHOPIFY_CLIENT_API_SECRET']
  config.scope = 'read_customers, read_orders, write_products'
  config.embedded_app = true
end
```


WebhooksManager
---------------

ShopifyApp can manage your app's webhooks for you by setting which webhooks you require in the initializer:

```ruby
ShopifyApp.configure do |config|
  config.webhooks = [
    {topic: 'carts/update', address: 'example-app.com/webhooks/carts_update'}
  ]
end
```

When the oauth callback is completed successfully ShopifyApp will queue a background job which will ensure all the specified webhooks exist for that shop. Because this runs on every oauth callback it means your app will always have the webhooks it needs even if the user uninstalls and re-installs the app.

ShopifyApp also provides a WebhooksController that receives webhooks and queues a job based on the webhook url. For example if you register the webhook from above then all you need to do is create a job called `CartsUpdateJob`. The job will be queued with 2 params `shop_domain` and `webhook` which is the webhook body.

If you'd rather implement your own controller then you'll want to use the WebhookVerfication module to verify your webhooks:

```ruby
class CustomWebhooksController < ApplicationController
  include ShopifyApp::WebhookVerification

  def carts_update
    SomeJob.perform_later(shopify_domain: shop_domain, webhook: params)
    head :ok
  end
end
```

The module skips the `verify_authenticity_token` before_action and adds an action to verify that the webhook came from Shopify.

The WebhooksManager uses ActiveJob, if ActiveJob is not configured then by default Rails will run the jobs inline. However it is highly recommended to configure a proper background processing queue like sidekiq or resque in production.

ShopifyApp can create webhooks for you using the `add_webhook` generator. This will add the new webhook to your config and create the required job class for you.

```
rails g shopify_app:add_webhook -t carts/update -a https://example.com/webhooks/carts_update
```

where `-t` is the topic and `-a` is the address the webhook should be sent to.

ScripttagsManager
-----------------

As with webhooks, ShopifyApp can manage your app's scripttags for you by setting which scripttags you require in the initializer:

```ruby
ShopifyApp.configure do |config|
  config.scripttags = [
    {event:'onload', src: 'https://my-shopifyapp.herokuapp.com/fancy.js'}
  ]
end
```

Scripttags are created in the same way as the Webhooks, with a background job which will create the required scripttags.

If you want to use the application.js file as generated by the Rails asset pipeline, you can do so by moving the `ShopifyApp.configure`
to `config/application.rb` like so:

```ruby
config.after_initialize do
	ShopifyApp.configure do |shopify_config|
		shopify_config.scripttags = [
			{event: 'onload', src: "https://example.com#{ActionController::Base.helpers.javascript_url('application')}"}
		]
	end
end
```

This will ensure the configuration is done after the asset file is fingerprinted.

ShopifyApp::SessionRepository
-----------------------------

`ShopifyApp::SessionRepository` allows you as a developer to define how your sessions are retrieved and stored for a shop. The `SessionRepository` is configured using the `config/initializers/shopify_session_repository.rb` file and can be set to any object that implements `self.store(shopify_session)` which stores the session and returns a unique identifier and `self.retrieve(id)` which returns a `ShopifyAPI::Session` for the passed id. See either the `InMemorySessionStore` or the `SessionStorage` module for examples.

If you only run the install generator then by default you will have an in memory store but it **won't work** on multi-server environments including Heroku. If you ran all the generators including the shop_model generator then the Shop model itself will be the `SessionRepository`. If you look at the implementation of the generated shop model you'll see that this gem provides an activerecord mixin for the `SessionRepository`. You can use this mixin on any model that responds to `shopify_domain` and `shopify_token`.

AuthenticatedController
-----------------------

The engine includes a controller called `ShopifyApp::AuthenticatedController` which inherits from `ApplicationController`. It adds some before_filters which ensure the user is authenticated and will redirect to the login page if not. It is best practice to have all controllers that belong to the Shopify part of your app inherit from this controller. The HomeController that is generated already inherits from AuthenticatedController.

AppProxyVerification
--------------------

The engine provides a mixin for verifying incoming HTTP requests sent via an App Proxy. Any controller that `include`s `ShopifyApp::AppProxyVerification` will verify that each request has a valid `signature` query parameter that is calculated using the other query parameters and the app's shared secret.

### Recommended Usage

1. Use the `namespace` method to create app proxy routes
    ```ruby
    # config/routes.rb
    namespace :app_proxy do
      # simple routes without a specified controller will go to AppProxyController
      get :basic

      # more complex routes will go to controllers in the AppProxy namespace
      resources :reviews
      # GET /app_proxy/reviews will now be routed to
      # AppProxy::ReviewsController#index, for example
    end
    ```

2. `include` the mixin in your app proxy controllers
    ```ruby
    # app/controllers/app_proxy_controller.rb
    class AppProxyController < ApplicationController
      include ShopifyApp::AppProxyVerification

      def basic
        render text: 'Signature verification passed!'
      end
    end

    # app/controllers/app_proxy/reviews_controller.rb
    class ReviewsController < ApplicationController
      include ShopifyApp::AppProxyVerification
      # ...
    end
    ```

3. Create your app proxy url in the [Shopify Partners' Dashboard](https://app.shopify.com/services/partners/api_clients), making sure to point it to `https://your_app_website.com/app_proxy`.
![Creating an App Proxy](/images/app-proxy-screenshot.png)

Troubleshooting
---------------

### Generator shopify_app:install hangs

Rails uses spring by default to speed up development. To run the generator, spring has to be stopped:

```sh
$ bundle exec spring stop
```

Run shopify_app generator again.

Testing an embedded app outside the Shopify admin
-------------------------------------------------

By default, loading your embedded app will redirect to the Shopify admin, with the app view loaded in an `iframe`. If you need to load your app outside of the Shopify admin (e.g., for performance testing), you can change `forceRedirect: false` to `true` in `ShopifyApp.init` block in the `embedded_app` view. To keep the redirect on in production but off in your `development` and `test` environments, you can use:

```javascript
forceRedirect: <%= Rails.env.development? || Rails.env.test? ? 'false' : 'true' %>
```

Questions or problems?
----------------------
http://api.shopify.com <= Read up on the possible API calls!

http://ecommerce.shopify.com/c/shopify-apis-and-technology <= Ask questions!

http://docs.shopify.com/api/the-basics/getting-started <= Read the docs!
