h2. Shopify application generator for Rails 3

h3. Description:

This plugin makes it easy to get a Rails 3 app up and running with the
Shopify API.

The generator creates a basic login controller for authenticating with your
shop and a controller called "home" which displays basic information about
your products, orders and articles.

bq. _Note:_ It's recommended to use this on a new Rails project, so that the
generator won't overwrite/delete some of your files.

h3. Installation:

<pre>
<code>
  # Add @gem shopify_api@ to your Gemfile
  $ echo "gem 'shopify_api'" >> Gemfile
  
  $ bundle install
  
  $ rails plugin install git://github.com/Shopify/shopify_app.git
</code>
</pre>

h3. Usage:

<pre>
<code>
  $ rails generate shopify_app your_app_api_key your_app_secret
</code>
</pre>

If you don't have an API key yet, create a Shopify Partner account at
http://shopify.com/partners and create an app. You can also create test shops
once you're logged in as a partner.

You can also create a private application that only works for your shop by
visiting "https://YOUR-SHOP.myshopify.com/admin/api":https://YOUR-SHOP.myshopify.com/admin/api

h4. Example:

<pre>
<code>
  $ rails generate shopify_app edffbb1bb793e2750686e6f4647a384a fed5bb18hde3e2750686e6f4647a781a
</code>
</pre>
        
This will create a LoginController and a HomeController with their own views.

h3. After running the generator

First, start your application:

<pre>
<code>
  $ rails server
</code>
</pre>

Now visit "http://localhost:3000":http://localhost:3000 and install your
application in a Shopify store.

After your application has been given read or read/write API permission by the
shop, you're ready to start experimenting with the Shopify API.

h3. Questions or problems?

"API Reference":http://api.shopify.com <= Read up on the possible calls!

"Developer Forums":http://forums.shopify.com/categories/9 <= Talk to new friends!

"Developer Wiki":http://wiki.shopify.com/Shopify_App_Development <= Edit the docs!